---
title: 'About Me'
date: 2024-11-13
permalink: /posts/2024/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

<style>
.tooltip {
    position: relative;
    cursor: pointer;
}
.tooltip .tooltiptext {
    visibility: hidden;
    width: 30vw;
    background-color: rgba(192,192,192,1);
    color: rgba(255,255,255,1);
    text-align: left;
    border-radius: 10px;
    padding: 10px;
    position: absolute;
    z-index: 1;
    bottom: 125%;
    left: 0%;
    margin-left: -10vw;
    opacity: 0;
}
.tooltip.show .tooltiptext {
    visibility: visible;
    opacity: 1;
}
</style>


<script>
function toggleTooltip(element) {
    element.classList.toggle('show');
}
</script>


<p>I am Jianhai Shu (舒建海), a junior undergraduate student from <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">China<span class="tooltiptext">Hefei City, Anhui Province</span></span>. I am currently pursuing a double major in <span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(224,128,192,1);">Mathematics and Physics</span> and <span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(224,128,192,1);">Energy and Power Engineering</span>, at <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">Weiyang College<span class="tooltiptext">未央书院</span></span>, <a href="https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/">Tsinghua University</a>.</p>

<p>My training program combines rigorous theory and engineering applications. My coursework includes foundational subjects like <span style="font-style: italic;">Calculus</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Linear Algebra</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Fundamentals of Physics</span>, and <span style="font-style: italic;">Probability Theory</span>, along with specialized studies in <span style="font-style: italic;">Material Mechanics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Engineering Thermodynamics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Fluid Mechanics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Heat Transfer</span>, <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">and so on<span class="tooltiptext">Numerical Analysis, Fundamentals of Control Engineering, Lab. of Physics A, Big Data and Artificial Intelligence for Engineering, ...</span></span>. I learned a lot from extensive study, and the diverse background has equipped me with a robust understanding of real-world problems.</p>

<p>I also take elective courses beyond my training program to strengthen my fundamental knowledge. Driven by a strong interest in data science, I took <span style="font-style: italic;">Advanced Linear Algebra</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Linear Regression Analysis</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Multivariate Statistical Analysis</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Time Series Analysis</span>, and <span style="font-style: italic;">Data Structures and Algorithms</span>, which keeps benefiting my understanding of mathematics, statistics, and programming. I am passionate about using interdisciplinary approaches to bridge theory and application, and in the future I will keep exploring more topics of interest through courses or self-teaching.</p>

<p>Aside from the coursework, I take the initiative to explore new fields and develop new skills as well. I proactively learned python programming before my freshman year, which turned out to be essential in my future courses and research projects. In pursuit of accuracy and reusablity, I also learned LaTeX to compile <a href="/resources/">notes</a> as a study profile. Additionally, I learned web front-end development with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Vue.js, enabling me to build customized web pages and applications (including this site). And skills like Git and <a href="https://github.com/Celestopia">GitHub</a> have streamlined project management and collaboration. Learning new techniques has always been a way to deepen my understanding of the world. <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">In the future, I will keep my footstep in exploring various fields and make my own contributions.<span class="tooltiptext">Out of entertainment interest, I may also explore image processing, wave processing and music composition (wish I have the time😄).</span></span></p>

<p>Recently, I am dedicated to the research of generative models. In particular, my focus is likelihood-based models like NCSN and Diffusion. I love this topic, as it fascinates me with beautiful statistical backgrounds, and offers phylosophical insights into the nature of intelligence. Meanwhile, my current project incorporates complex network and control theory, which aligns with my ambition to ensure robust operation of real-world systems. I am dynamic everyday to do what I find interesting and meaningful.</p>

<p>Beyond study, I have a relaxed lifestyle. In my leisure time, I enjoy playing anime games and rhythm games. <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">I love music as well. I learned piano for eight years in my childhood, and in recent years I'm especially obsessed with pop music and electronic music<span class="tooltiptext">I will try to make my own ones in the future!🥰</span></span>. Also, I enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and long-distance running. Maybe keeping the balance between work and leisure is the key to my energetic and optimistic mindset.</p>

<p><span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(32,32,32,0.3);"><br/><br/><br/>The pursuit of knowledge knows no bounds, and the joy of discovery is limitless. In the relentless journey toward understanding, one finds profound fulfillment and enduring satisfaction.</span></p>


